# PQC-implementation

Quantum computer is a growing threat to the encryption algorithms that are currently used to protect our data. In particular, asymmetric algorithms such as RSA or elliptic curves can be broken thanks to the quantum computer. Indeed, the security of RSA (which is today a standard for cryptographic key exchange) is based on the difficulty of factoring a large number into a prime factor product. This problem cannot be solved in a reasonable time with classical computers because the factorization algorithm has an exponential complexity with the size of the number to factorize. On the other hand, with a quantum computer, Shor's algorithm allows to solve this problem in polynomial time1 and thus to break the RSA algorithm. To cope with this, the NIST (National Institute of Technology and Standard) launched a competition in 2016 to standardize a new encryption algorithm capable of withstanding the quantum computer2. It is this type of algorithm that we call a post-quantum encryption algorithm. Today, the competition is in its final phase and the winner(s) will be announced soon. During this competition, the NIST asked for implementations of each algorithm on a particular embedded target: a cortex M4 microcontroller. However, it can also be very interesting to try to implement these algorithms on other devices in order to study them in more depth, to optimize their implementation between software and hardware but also to test them against known attacks on embedded systems. 

The aim of this project is to choose a post-quantum encryption algorithm among the finalists of the competition and to implement it on a heterogeneous embedded target. This target includes a generic computational processor but also a reconfigurable part of FPGA type. Thus, it will be possible to study the software/hardware cointegration of the algorithm on this type of device. 
